C-2.24 Suppose you are on the design team for a new e-book reader. What are the
primary classes and methods that the Python software for your reader will
need? You should include an inheritance diagram for this code, but you
do not need to write any actual code. Your software architecture should
at least include ways for customers to buy new books, view their list of
purchased books, and read their purchased books.
C-2.25 Exercise R-2.12 uses the mul method to support multiplying a Vector
by a number, while Exercise R-2.14 uses the mul method to support
computing a dot product of two vectors. Give a single implementation of
Vector. mul that uses run-time type checking to support both syntaxes
u v and u k, where u and v designate vector instances and k represents
a number.
C-2.26 The SequenceIterator class of Section 2.3.4 provides what is known as a
forward iterator. Implement a class named ReversedSequenceIterator that
serves as a reverse iterator for any Python sequence type. The first call to
next should return the last element of the sequence, the second call to next
should return the second-to-last element, and so forth.
www.it-ebooks.infoChapter 2. Object-Oriented Programming
106
C-2.27 In Section 2.3.5, we note that our version of the Range class has im-
plicit support for iteration, due to its explicit support of both len
and getitem . The class also receives implicit support of the Boolean
test, “k in r” for Range r. This test is evaluated based on a forward itera-
tion through the range, as evidenced by the relative quickness of the test
2 in Range(10000000) versus 9999999 in Range(10000000). Provide a
more efficient implementation of the contains method to determine
whether a particular value lies within a given range. The running time of
your method should be independent of the length of the range.
C-2.28 The PredatoryCreditCard class of Section 2.4.1 provides a process month
method that models the completion of a monthly cycle. Modify the class
so that once a customer has made ten calls to charge in the current month,
each additional call to that function results in an additional $1 surcharge.
C-2.29 Modify the PredatoryCreditCard class from Section 2.4.1 so that a cus-
tomer is assigned a minimum monthly payment, as a percentage of the
balance, and so that a late fee is assessed if the customer does not subse-
quently pay that minimum amount before the next monthly cycle.
C-2.30 At the close of Section 2.4.1, we suggest a model in which the CreditCard
class supports a nonpublic method, set balance(b), that could be used
by subclasses to affect a change to the balance, without directly accessing
the balance data member. Implement such a model, revising both the
CreditCard and PredatoryCreditCard classes accordingly.
C-2.31 Write a Python class that extends the Progression class so that each value
in the progression is the absolute value of the difference between the pre-
vious two values. You should include a constructor that accepts a pair of
numbers as the first two values, using 2 and 200 as the defaults.
C-2.32 Write a Python class that extends the Progression class so that each value
in the progression is the square root of the previous value. (Note that
you can no longer represent each value with an integer.) Your construc-
tor should accept an optional parameter specifying the start value, using
65, 536 as a default.